/*
 * $Id: cfapinit.txt 1.2 Broadcom SDK $
 *
 * $Copyright: Copyright 2012 Broadcom Corporation.
 * This program is the proprietary software of Broadcom Corporation
 * and/or its licensors, and may only be used, duplicated, modified
 * or distributed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate,
 * written license agreement executed between you and Broadcom
 * (an "Authorized License").  Except as set forth in an Authorized
 * License, Broadcom grants no license (express or implied), right
 * to use, or waiver of any kind with respect to the Software, and
 * Broadcom expressly reserves all rights in and to the Software
 * and all intellectual property rights therein.  IF YOU HAVE
 * NO AUTHORIZED LICENSE, THEN YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO USE THIS SOFTWARE
 * IN ANY WAY, AND SHOULD IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY BROADCOM AND DISCONTINUE
 * ALL USE OF THE SOFTWARE.  
 *  
 * Except as expressly set forth in the Authorized License,
 *  
 * 1.     This program, including its structure, sequence and organization,
 * constitutes the valuable trade secrets of Broadcom, and you shall use
 * all reasonable efforts to protect the confidentiality thereof,
 * and to use this information only in connection with your use of
 * Broadcom integrated circuit products.
 *  
 * 2.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS
 * PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND BROADCOM MAKES NO PROMISES,
 * REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY,
 * OR OTHERWISE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE.  BROADCOM SPECIFICALLY
 * DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY,
 * NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, LACK OF VIRUSES,
 * ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS, QUIET ENJOYMENT, QUIET POSSESSION OR
 * CORRESPONDENCE TO DESCRIPTION. YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING
 * OUT OF USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.
 * 
 * 3.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL
 * BROADCOM OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR (i) CONSEQUENTIAL,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
 * ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATING TO YOUR USE OF OR INABILITY
 * TO USE THE SOFTWARE EVEN IF BROADCOM HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES; OR (ii) ANY AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF
 * THE AMOUNT ACTUALLY PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE ITSELF OR USD 1.00,
 * WHICHEVER IS GREATER. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING
 * ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.$
 */
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
			   Notes on CFAPINIT
		 Curt McDowell, Broadcom Corp. 06-20-02
			 Last Updated: 06-20-02
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Overview

The CBP (Cell Buffer Pool) consists of five tables, CBPHEADER and
CBPDATA0-3.  These tables are always addressed in parallel and contain
0x1000 or 0x2000 indexes depending on the chip.

The CFAP (Cell Free Address Pool) is a chip memory that contains a
linked list of free indexes in the CBP.

The CFAP table is initialized automatically by hardware when the chip is
reset by external hardware reset or by software CPS reset (BCM "init
soc" command).

2. CFAP bit errors

In the case where there is a known bad memory location in the CBPHEADER
or CBPDATA0-3 memories, internally-generated CRC errors may result while
switching traffic.

If the index of the bad location(s) are known, sometimes they may be
mapped out of the CFAP by removing it from the free list before
switching begins.  Then the chip can switch properly with slightly
reduced memory capacity.

Of course, chips with any sort of error should never be used in
products.  However, during initial chip sampling where yield has been a
problem, some chips have no problems other than a few bit errors in the
CBP.  The goal is to be able to use as many of these chips as possible
for software development and hardware debugging.

3. Software CFAPINIT

The BCM command "cfapinit" performs a memory test on the CBP memories
and maps out any bad locations that are found.  The cfapinit command
should normally never be run except under conditions described above.

Bad entries are swapped out for good entries at the end of the table,
and the CFAP pool size is decremented accordingly.

4. Running CFAPINIT automatically

The rc.soc will run cfapinit automatically if the "cfap_tests" property
is set.  This can be done as follows:

	BCM.0> config add cfap_tests=0x30
	BCM.0> config save
	BCM.0> reset

The value 0x30 in this case indicates that the Checkerboard and Inverse
checkerboard memory tests should be run.  The value is the logical OR of
any of the following:

	0x1		All zeroes pattern
	0x2		All ones pattern
	0x4		All 5s pattern
	0x8		All As pattern
	0x10		Checkerboard pattern
	0x20		Inverted checkerboard
	0x40		Data=Address pattern
	0x80		Pseudo-random pattern

Running additional tests may catch more errors, but it may also
dramatically slow down the execution of rc.soc since there is a lot of
memory to be tested.
