/*
 * $Id: endian.txt 1.2 Broadcom SDK $
 *
 * $Copyright: Copyright 2012 Broadcom Corporation.
 * This program is the proprietary software of Broadcom Corporation
 * and/or its licensors, and may only be used, duplicated, modified
 * or distributed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate,
 * written license agreement executed between you and Broadcom
 * (an "Authorized License").  Except as set forth in an Authorized
 * License, Broadcom grants no license (express or implied), right
 * to use, or waiver of any kind with respect to the Software, and
 * Broadcom expressly reserves all rights in and to the Software
 * and all intellectual property rights therein.  IF YOU HAVE
 * NO AUTHORIZED LICENSE, THEN YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO USE THIS SOFTWARE
 * IN ANY WAY, AND SHOULD IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY BROADCOM AND DISCONTINUE
 * ALL USE OF THE SOFTWARE.  
 *  
 * Except as expressly set forth in the Authorized License,
 *  
 * 1.     This program, including its structure, sequence and organization,
 * constitutes the valuable trade secrets of Broadcom, and you shall use
 * all reasonable efforts to protect the confidentiality thereof,
 * and to use this information only in connection with your use of
 * Broadcom integrated circuit products.
 *  
 * 2.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS
 * PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND BROADCOM MAKES NO PROMISES,
 * REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY,
 * OR OTHERWISE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE.  BROADCOM SPECIFICALLY
 * DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY,
 * NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, LACK OF VIRUSES,
 * ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS, QUIET ENJOYMENT, QUIET POSSESSION OR
 * CORRESPONDENCE TO DESCRIPTION. YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING
 * OUT OF USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.
 * 
 * 3.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL
 * BROADCOM OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR (i) CONSEQUENTIAL,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
 * ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATING TO YOUR USE OF OR INABILITY
 * TO USE THE SOFTWARE EVEN IF BROADCOM HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES; OR (ii) ANY AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF
 * THE AMOUNT ACTUALLY PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE ITSELF OR USD 1.00,
 * WHICHEVER IS GREATER. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING
 * ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.$
 */
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
		   Notes on StrataSwitch Endian Modes
		 Curt McDowell, Broadcom Corp. 01-10-00
			 Last Updated: 02-07-00
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Data Transfer Types

Endian issues affect the following types of data transfer that are used
in the StrataSwitch:

	PCI Config space
		Generates special bus cycles used to configure PCI
		parameters such as Base Address Registers.

	PCI Memory space
		Used to access CMIC registers, including the S-Channel
		message buffer and ARL message buffers.  Sometimes
		referred to as PIO (programmed I/O).

	Packet DMA
		Refers to the CMIC transferring network packet data
		into or out of host memory.

	Descriptor DMA
		Refers to the CMIC fetching descriptors out of host
		memory.  The descriptors contain control and status
		words for packet DMA.

	Counter DMA
		Refers to the CMIC mirroring the contents of MAC
		packet statistics counters into host memory.

	ARL Message DMA
		Refers to the CMIC mirroring S-Channel ARL insert/delete
		messages into host memory.

	Non-packet DMA
		Used collectively to refer to Descriptor, Counter,
		and ARL Message DMA.

2. Swapping Requirements

Regardless of CPU endianness, Packet DMA data always appears in host
memory in big-endian format.  Packet DMA data does not have a 32-bit
organization and is viewed as a byte stream.  Historically, software is
always written to expect big-endian format when accessing a network byte
stream.  Whenever software accesses a 2-byte or 4-byte quantity in the
Packet DMA data, it uses ntohs() and ntohl() appropriately to perform
the swap at that time.

It happens that all data types except Packet DMA are most naturally
accessed by the processor using 32-bit loads and stores.  CMIC
registers, descriptor words, counter values, and ARL message contents
have a 32-bit organization.  When software running on the host CPU
performs 32-bit accesses to this little-endian data, the results are
proper on a little-endian host CPU, but must be byte-swapped on a
big-endian host CPU.

3. Swapping Reduction Features (BCM5600N2 and higher)

For performance reasons, it would be convenient to reduce the amount of
swapping a big-endian CPU has to perform when accessing PCI Memory
space.  The CMIC has a feature allowing it to be configured to
automatically swap accesses to PCI Memory space.  This feature
(ENDIAN_SELECT.PIO) can be enabled at initialization time on a
big-endian processor, and then software can read and write PCI Memory
space without worrying about swapping.  Note that this also causes PCI
Memory accesses to appear swapped on a PCI bus analyzer.

For performance reasons, it would also be convenient to reduce the
amount of swapping required for Non-packet DMA.  The CMIC has a feature
allowing it to be configured to automatically swap Non-packet DMA data.
This feature (ENDIAN_SELECT.DMA_OTHER) can be enabled at initialization
time on a big-endian processor, and then software can read and write
Non-packet DMA data without worrying about swapping.

When the CMIC writes big-endian Packet DMA data onto the little-endian
PCI bus, it always performs endian swapping.  That is required for the
packet data to finally appear as big-endian in host memory.  However,
the CMIC has a feature allowing it to be configured to not swap packet
data.  This feature (ENDIAN_SELECT.DMA_PACKET) must be enabled ONLY if a
little-endian PCI bus is not being used, and instead CMIC is connected
directly to a 32-bit big-endian processor bus.  Future revisions of the
StrataSwitch may support a direct interface to a big-endian bus.

The CMIC never swaps accesses to PCI Config space because PCI Config
accesses are not done often enough to worry about performance.  Also, to
do so might confuse PCI bus analyzers.

The following table indicates the swapping required and the preferred
settings of the ENDIAN_SELECT bits for each unique case:

					PCI	    PCI		Coldfire*
					LE CPU	    BE CPU	BE CPU
					-------	    -------	-------
	PCI Config			no swap	    no swap	N/A
	PCI Memory			no swap	    swap	swap
	Non-packet DMA			no swap	    swap	swap
	Packet DMA			swap	    swap	no swap

	ENDIAN_SELECT.PIO		0	    1		1
	ENDIAN_SELECT.DMA_PACKET	0	    0		1
	ENDIAN_SELECT.DMA_OTHER		0	    1		1

*Note: Coldfire refers only to a proposed native Coldfire bus interface.
       When Coldfire is used with a PCI bridge, PCI BE CPU applies.
