/*  
 * $Id$
 *
 * $Copyright: Copyright 2012 Broadcom Corporation.
 * This program is the proprietary software of Broadcom Corporation
 * and/or its licensors, and may only be used, duplicated, modified
 * or distributed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate,
 * written license agreement executed between you and Broadcom
 * (an "Authorized License").  Except as set forth in an Authorized
 * License, Broadcom grants no license (express or implied), right
 * to use, or waiver of any kind with respect to the Software, and
 * Broadcom expressly reserves all rights in and to the Software
 * and all intellectual property rights therein.  IF YOU HAVE
 * NO AUTHORIZED LICENSE, THEN YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO USE THIS SOFTWARE
 * IN ANY WAY, AND SHOULD IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY BROADCOM AND DISCONTINUE
 * ALL USE OF THE SOFTWARE.  
 *  
 * Except as expressly set forth in the Authorized License,
 *  
 * 1.     This program, including its structure, sequence and organization,
 * constitutes the valuable trade secrets of Broadcom, and you shall use
 * all reasonable efforts to protect the confidentiality thereof,
 * and to use this information only in connection with your use of
 * Broadcom integrated circuit products.
 *  
 * 2.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS
 * PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND BROADCOM MAKES NO PROMISES,
 * REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY,
 * OR OTHERWISE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE.  BROADCOM SPECIFICALLY
 * DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY,
 * NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, LACK OF VIRUSES,
 * ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS, QUIET ENJOYMENT, QUIET POSSESSION OR
 * CORRESPONDENCE TO DESCRIPTION. YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING
 * OUT OF USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.
 * 
 * 3.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL
 * BROADCOM OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR (i) CONSEQUENTIAL,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
 * ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATING TO YOUR USE OF OR INABILITY
 * TO USE THE SOFTWARE EVEN IF BROADCOM HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES; OR (ii) ANY AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF
 * THE AMOUNT ACTUALLY PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE ITSELF OR USD 1.00,
 * WHICHEVER IS GREATER. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING
 * ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.$
 */

			SDK Linux User Support


The Broadcom SDK can be compiled as part of a user space application, 
for development flexibility and debugging purposes. 

In this configuration, the entire driver is compiled as a user space 
library, which you can link with your application. It will provide all 
regular driver features, but at some cost in performance. 

The core of the user space support is in the Linux User Mode BDE 
(Broadcom Device Enumerator). This BDE provides all chip virtualization 
for user mode execution, which includes device PCI access, register 
address space mmapping, and interrupt virtualization. 

When running in this mode, the entire driver, including interrupt 
handling, can be debugged from user space using GDB, and you should 
never crash your machine. 

The user space support requires a couple of kernel modules to provide
the virtualization services:

linux-kernel-bde.o
------------------

source: sdk/systems/bde/linux/kernel

See the ../kernel/README file for information on the use the 
linux-kernel-bde module. 

linux-user-bde.o
----------------

source: sdk/systems/bde/linux/user/kern

The Linux user BDE implentation is comprised of two parts -- a kernel 
module, and a user space library. The linux-user-bde is the kernel 
portion and it relies upon the linux-kernel-bde module to access the 
devices in the system, and it then provides PCI, DMA, register, and 
interrupt virtualization to the user space library, which provides the 
actual BDE interface pointer. 

You must load both the linux-kernel-bde and the linux-user-bde 
modules before running your user space BCM application. 

Configurations for building the BCM diag shell application for 
specific BRCM platforms are available in the subdirectories of this
directory. For example, building the user space BCM diag shell for the 
BRCM 8245 CPCI board (BMW) is done by:
	
	cd bmw; gmake

The products of this build will be the linux-kernel-bde.o and 
linux-user-bde.o modules, and the bcm.user application.
