/*
 * $Id$
 *
 * $Copyright: Copyright 2012 Broadcom Corporation.
 * This program is the proprietary software of Broadcom Corporation
 * and/or its licensors, and may only be used, duplicated, modified
 * or distributed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate,
 * written license agreement executed between you and Broadcom
 * (an "Authorized License").  Except as set forth in an Authorized
 * License, Broadcom grants no license (express or implied), right
 * to use, or waiver of any kind with respect to the Software, and
 * Broadcom expressly reserves all rights in and to the Software
 * and all intellectual property rights therein.  IF YOU HAVE
 * NO AUTHORIZED LICENSE, THEN YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO USE THIS SOFTWARE
 * IN ANY WAY, AND SHOULD IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY BROADCOM AND DISCONTINUE
 * ALL USE OF THE SOFTWARE.  
 *  
 * Except as expressly set forth in the Authorized License,
 *  
 * 1.     This program, including its structure, sequence and organization,
 * constitutes the valuable trade secrets of Broadcom, and you shall use
 * all reasonable efforts to protect the confidentiality thereof,
 * and to use this information only in connection with your use of
 * Broadcom integrated circuit products.
 *  
 * 2.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS
 * PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND BROADCOM MAKES NO PROMISES,
 * REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY,
 * OR OTHERWISE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE.  BROADCOM SPECIFICALLY
 * DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY,
 * NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, LACK OF VIRUSES,
 * ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS, QUIET ENJOYMENT, QUIET POSSESSION OR
 * CORRESPONDENCE TO DESCRIPTION. YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING
 * OUT OF USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.
 * 
 * 3.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL
 * BROADCOM OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR (i) CONSEQUENTIAL,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
 * ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATING TO YOUR USE OF OR INABILITY
 * TO USE THE SOFTWARE EVEN IF BROADCOM HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES; OR (ii) ANY AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF
 * THE AMOUNT ACTUALLY PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE ITSELF OR USD 1.00,
 * WHICHEVER IS GREATER. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING
 * ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.$
 */

------------------------------------------------------------------------------


        #        #####
        #    #  #     #          #####    ####   #####    #####
        #    #  #     #          #    #  #    #  #    #     #
        #    #   #####   #####   #    #  #    #  #    #     #
        ####### #     #          #####   #    #  #####      #
             #  #     #          #       #    #  #   #      #
             #   #####           #        ####   #    #     #


                 Curt McDowell, Broadcom Corp. 05-23-01
                         Last Updated: 02-28-02


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1) Boot Flag

The VxWorks boot flag 0x40000 must always be set for the 48-port board.
In the future, this will be taken care of by board ID; however some
early 48-port boards do not have a board ID.

To set the boot flag, reset the system and press RETURN while it is
counting down.  Then use the 'p' command to display the current setting
of flags.  If the flags do not include bit 18 (0x40000) then use the 'c'
command to add 0x40000 to the current value of flags.

Another useful boot flag is 0x1000.  If this flag is set, the rc.soc
will not be loaded on either unit when the system boots.  rc.soc can
then be run manually on a single unit using the command "0:rc" or
"1:rc", or on both units using the command "*:rc".

2) Config Settings

The cross-linked Gig ports are Unit 0 port ge0 and Unit 1 port ge1.
Persistent configuration variables should be set in the config.bcm file
telling the driver which ports are cross-linked.  These ports do not
have a PHY.  The configuration variables tell the driver to select the
null PHY driver.

Boot the system to the "BCM.0>" prompt and use the "config" command to
display the current configuration settings.  If the required settings
are not there, use the following commands to add them:

        BCM.0> config add phy_null_port25.0=1
        BCM.0> config add phy_null_port26.1=1
        BCM.0> config save      # Make it permanent (writes flash:config.bcm)
        BCM.0> *:rc             # Changes can take effect without rebooting

The inter-packet gap parameter for the Turbo port must be lowered so
that 64-byte untagged packets can be switched at line rate on all ports
through the Turbo port.  The IPG parameters (GMACC2.IPGT) currently
cannot differ between the Turbo and non-Turbo GE ports using the 'ifg'
command, however configuration properties have been added to support
unique values per port.  Verify that the config parameters are set to 8
as follows:

        BCM.0> config add ipg_ge_fd_port25.0=8
        BCM.0> config add ipg_ge_fd_port26.1=8
        BCM.0> config save      # Make it permanent (writes flash:config.bcm)
        BCM.0> *:rc             # Changes can take effect without rebooting

3) rc script

When the boot flag 0x40000 is set, the @p48 variable is automatically
set in the BCM diagnostics.  If the rc.soc detects this variable, it
performs additional 48-port initialization such as assigning module IDs
for stacking and enabling turbo mode on the cross links.

The rc.soc in $SDK/rc/rc.soc is set up to perform 48-port initialization
if running on a 48-port board.  This file should be copied to
flash:rc.soc if it is not already there.

When booting, the rc.soc is automatically run first on unit 0, and then
on unit 1.  When loading on unit 0, the variable @unit0 is set, and when
loading on unit 1, the variable @unit1 is set.  This way rc.soc can
detect which unit it is running on and perform slightly different
functions.  Please refer to rc.soc for initialization examples.

4) Software Multiple-Unit Access

When running on the 48-port board, there are two BCM56xx units found.
These are unit 0 and unit 1.  By default, both units will be attached
and the default rc.soc will be run on both units.

The current "default" unit shows up in the BCM prompt, e.g.:

        BCM.0> 

There are two ways to run commands on a specified unit.  The first is to
make it the default unit and simply run the command.  The default unit
can be set by entering the unit number followed by a colon.  For
example:

        BCM.0> rc
        BCM.0> 1:
        BCM.1> rc
        BCM.1> 0:
        BCM.0> 

The second is to precede any command with a unit number and colon
prefix.  This executes the command on the specified unit without
changing the default.  For example:

        BCM.0> rc
        BCM.0> 1:rc
        BCM.0> 

There is a shortcut to run a command on all attached units, which is to
prefix a command by an asterisk and colon prefix.  For example:

        BCM.0> *:rc
        BCM.0> *:getreg config.g0
        BCM.0> 

5) Turbo-Specific Features

For setting Turbo mode:

        BCM.0> 0:m config2.g0 turbo=1
        BCM.0> 1:m config2.g1 turbo=1

The BCM5617 is an earlier chip which requires additional configuration.
For setting DDR and clock driver strengths properly for high speed
(required only on transmitting side and only on port ge1):

        BCM.0> 1:m config2.g1 phase_ctl=1

Example commands for setting drive strengths for transmitting side:

        BCM.0> 0:m config2.g0 clk_drv=X tds_drv=Y
        BCM.0> 1:m config2.g1 clk_drv=X tds_drv=Y

For permanently setting Turbo mode

        BCM.0> config add turbo_port25.0=1
        BCM.0> config add turbo_port26.1=1
        BCM.0> config save
        BCM.0> rc.soc
