/*  
 * $Id: README 1.4 Broadcom SDK $
 *
 * $Copyright: Copyright 2012 Broadcom Corporation.
 * This program is the proprietary software of Broadcom Corporation
 * and/or its licensors, and may only be used, duplicated, modified
 * or distributed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a separate,
 * written license agreement executed between you and Broadcom
 * (an "Authorized License").  Except as set forth in an Authorized
 * License, Broadcom grants no license (express or implied), right
 * to use, or waiver of any kind with respect to the Software, and
 * Broadcom expressly reserves all rights in and to the Software
 * and all intellectual property rights therein.  IF YOU HAVE
 * NO AUTHORIZED LICENSE, THEN YOU HAVE NO RIGHT TO USE THIS SOFTWARE
 * IN ANY WAY, AND SHOULD IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY BROADCOM AND DISCONTINUE
 * ALL USE OF THE SOFTWARE.  
 *  
 * Except as expressly set forth in the Authorized License,
 *  
 * 1.     This program, including its structure, sequence and organization,
 * constitutes the valuable trade secrets of Broadcom, and you shall use
 * all reasonable efforts to protect the confidentiality thereof,
 * and to use this information only in connection with your use of
 * Broadcom integrated circuit products.
 *  
 * 2.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS
 * PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND BROADCOM MAKES NO PROMISES,
 * REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY,
 * OR OTHERWISE, WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE.  BROADCOM SPECIFICALLY
 * DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY,
 * NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, LACK OF VIRUSES,
 * ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS, QUIET ENJOYMENT, QUIET POSSESSION OR
 * CORRESPONDENCE TO DESCRIPTION. YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING
 * OUT OF USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.
 * 
 * 3.     TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL
 * BROADCOM OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR (i) CONSEQUENTIAL,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
 * ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATING TO YOUR USE OF OR INABILITY
 * TO USE THE SOFTWARE EVEN IF BROADCOM HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
 * POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES; OR (ii) ANY AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF
 * THE AMOUNT ACTUALLY PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE ITSELF OR USD 1.00,
 * WHICHEVER IS GREATER. THESE LIMITATIONS SHALL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING
 * ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.$
 */

			SDK Linux Kernel Support	


The Broadcom SDK can be compiled as a loadable kernel module, 
providing driver services to application kernel modules. 

The Linux kernel support is comprised of several modules, the source 
to which can mostly be found under the 'modules' subdirectory. 

Linux kernel support is broken into the following functional modules:

linux-kernel-bde.o
------------------

source: sdk/systems/bde/linux/kernel

This module implements a Broadcom Device Enumerator interface for the 
Linux kernel (see sdk/include/ibde.h). When the driver is running in 
kernel mode, it uses the BDE exported by this module for initialization 
and chip access. This module must be loaded first, and has no other 
module dependencies.

The BDE needs a memory block outside the Linux system memory space for 
allocation of DMA memory. The easiest and most flexible way to to this 
is to use the kernel parameter 'mem', e.g. on a 64MB system, 'mem=56M'
will reserve 8MB of memory for DMA. 

The linux-kernel-bde module optionally takes two parameters:

dmasize - DMA memory block size (default probe for available memory.)
debug - more verbose output when loading and initializing.

Example:

insmod linux-kernel-bde.o dmasize=8M debug=2


linux-uk-proxy.o
----------------

source: sdk/systems/linux/kernel/modules/uk-proxy

This module provides an API for creating proxy services between Linux 
user mode and kernel mode.

The linux-uk-proxy module does not take any parameters.

Example:

insmod linux-uk-proxy.o


linux-bcm-diag-full.o
---------------------

source: sdk/systems/linux/kernel/modules/bcm-diag-full

This module is the core BCM driver and diagnostics shell module. It 
depends upon the linux-kernel-bde module to provide its BDE and the 
linux-uk-proxy module to provide a proxy service to allow a user mode
application to connect to the diagnostics shell (CLI).

The linux-bcm-diag-full module optionally takes one parameter:

debug - more verbose output when loading and initializing.

Example:

insmod linux-bcm-diag-full.o debug=2

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The kernel/user directory contains user mode applications to run on
top of the BCM driver.

The following application is compiled by default:

bcm.user.proxy
--------------

This program is a proxy client used for accessing the BCM diagnostics 
shell in the linux-bcm-diag-full module. By default the bcm.user.proxy 
program will provide a user mode shell on the local system, but it is
possible to let it act as a simple terminal server, which can be
accessed remotely using a telnet client.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The other subdirectories here contain makefile configurations for 
the different platforms and kernels currently supported. 

For example, building the kernel modules for the BRCM 8245 CPCI board 
(BMW) is as easy as:

	cd bmw; gmake; 

This command will build the modules described above as well as the 
bcm.user.proxy program. The modules must be inserted in the same 
order as described above.

All of this, of course, requires the Linux kernel headers for the 
platform and a compatible toolchain. 

Kernel source and toolchains for the platforms supported here are 
available from Broadcom as a separate distribution. 
